# CCL(Cell Counting and Localisation)
# CCL: An unsupervised cell counting and localisation method based on cell morphology segmentation

Cells are the basic unit of life, and key information such as their number, distribution and characteristics help us to gain insight into cellular biological processes and mechanisms of disease occurrence. In recent years, with the continuous development and advancement of microscopic imaging technology, a large amount of cell image data has been generated. Due to the diversity of cell types, imaging equipment, staining modes, processing methods, and the differences between cell morphologies, the cell images obtained from imaging are very rich in variety. It is very challenging to obtain research-valuable information from the large amount, variety and complexity of cell image data. Traditional methods based on manual labour are obviously no longer applicable, and some of the existing automated processing methods are also insufficient. Therefore, it is particularly important to develop a new automated method with strong generalisation ability and suitable for multimodal cell image processing. In order to solve this challenge, in this paper, we propose a general unsupervised cell counting and localisation method CCL based on cell morphology segmentation.Our method contains the following three channels: the foreground detection channel is a preliminary binary mask map obtained after region grey level clustering and adaptive threshold segmentation. The cell morphology classification channel is used to classify the cell images into two major categories of uniform and non-uniform cell sizes by automatically identifying single cells on each image by the standard deviation of the single cell size. The cell cluster segmentation i.e. ROI region counting and localisation channel is based on the morphological classification results to further select the suitable cell cluster processing method. In our approach, cell morphology, adhesion situation and modality differences are fully considered to be compatible with cell images of different modalities and show different morphological cell data.The CCL method has been tested on several publicly available cell image datasets. The results in terms of criterion metrics and generalisation ability show that this method outperforms current state-of-the-art techniques.
